>> Francesca Sadikin: So yes, fast forward
to a different role at a different company
where I encountered a similar challenge
but approached it very differently.
So my team is responsible for
developing reusable components and
workflows meant to accelerate
our other engineers' velocities.
And when I joined,
I found out that despite having some
solutions available,
no one was using any of it.
So we tried all of
the traditional adoption methods,
like write better documentation.
We were presenting it in
lots of different meetings,
to lots of different engineers, but
all of that failed to spark adoption.
So, we decided to take
a different approach.
And thankfully, I knew what not to do,
based off of my first experience.
We were definitely not going
to keep our heads down and
continue coding more tools and workflows.
It was time to talk to our
engineering customers and
really understand the lack of adoption.
So, we had presented this in groups
of meetings, but when we asked,
what's the hesitation?
What's going on?
Silence, nothing.
So we began instead, to have one-on-one
conversations with individual engineers.
And these sessions
created a safe space for
them to openly share all of their concerns
and hesitations, and to be clear,
we weren't trying to sell
them on our existing tools.
Not like, hey,
why don't you use this specific thing?
It was more to really just take
a step back and just understand,
l what's going on for you,
what's actually difficult for you, what's
the most painful part of the engineering
workflows, hearing their opinions.
And it wasn't just simple conversations
where people just told us the answers,
it actually required a lot of active
listening, intense curiosity to really
dig deep into what people were
implicitly saying or hinting at.
And creating an environment where
engineers felt safe to provide that
kind of feedback.
Because, I think in a way they
were also afraid of offending us.
And we were like, no, please, just let us
know, we want to know these things, right?
And so what emerged from these
conversations were really deeply
personal insights that we were
never gonna get in any other forum.
Some engineers, we learned,
had been burned by previous tools
because they adopted it too
early when it wasn't ready.
Others found that they didn't
have time to learn something new,
especially if they didn't know if
it was actually gonna be useful.
So it became clear that in general,
trust was a significant barrier,
they didn't trust our team, it was new,
and they didn't trust these tools.
But that wasn't all, we also uncovered
other deeply painful problems in their
workflows that we hadn't
initially considered.
These were issues that were really
causing the most frustration and
time consumption in their workflows, and
they wanted those to be solved first.
So armed with these insights,
our team did not just push forward with
our existing tools, we iterated on
them continuously, adding feedback and
making adjustments based on
the feedback we received.
So all of the engineers we talked to,
we kept the feedback loop to make sure
that we were continuously hearing
what they thought about it.
And we focused on solving the main
pain points that were most
important to these engineers.
This personalized and responsive approach
gradually built trust and credibility.
As more engineers saw their peers
benefiting from our tools, eventually,
skepticism gave way to curiosity,
and now to widespread adoption.
It took a while, but we were there.
So in both experiences,
the importance of caring about users and
actively listening to them and wanting
to understand them became crystal clear.
The first project failed because
we didn't take the time to
actually understand the needs of our
users beyond the initial request.
The second succeeded with widespread
adoption because we put empathy and
understanding first, engaging in
genuine conversations to uncover and
address the real concerns of our users.
>> Francesca Sadikin: That's
the end of this story.
[LAUGH] Do you guys relate,
agree, or disagree?
Okay, maybe this was a very obvious
message to engineers, that as someone who
constantly did this in the beginning of
my career, I thought it was important.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Just as a takeaway,
a recap of this particular story.
The experience has taught me that
effective work in software engineering is
more than just your ability to code.
Especially if you're working to
build something for someone,
it requires empathy, a willingness
to listen, and a deep care for
the person that you're serving.
Without them, we risk building
solutions in search of problems,
pushing out work that looks
great on the surface but
ultimately fails to
deliver any real value.
So our ability to care directly
correlates with our ability to execute.